
--- Page 1 ---
 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   April 2025 
Coursework Brief and Front Sheet PGT 
This front sheet for assessments is designed to contain the brief, the submission instructions, and 
the actual student submission for any WMG assessment. As a result, the sheet is completed by 
several people over time and is therefore split up into sections explaining who completes what 
information and when. Yellow highlighted text indicates examples or further explanation of what is 
requested, and the highlight and instructions should be removed as you populate ‘your’ section. 
This sheet is only to be used for components of assessment worth more than 3 CATS (e.g. for a 15 
credit module, weighted more than 20%; or for a 10 credit module, weighted more than 30%). 
 
 
To be completed (highlighted parts only) by the Programme Administration after approval and 
prior to issuing of the assessment; to be consulted by the Student(s) so that you know how and 
when to submit: 
 
 
Date set November 2025 
 
Submission date 
(excluding extensions) 
Monday 15th December 2025 by 12:00pm (UK Time) 
 
Submission guidance To be submitted electronically via Tabula  
 
Marks return date 
(excluding extensions) 
21st January 2026 
 
 
 
To be completed by the Module Leader/Tutor prior to approval and issuing of the assessment; to 
be briefed to the Student(s) so that they understand the Coursework Brief, its context within the 
module, and any specific criteria and advice from the tutor: 
 
 
Module Title & Code Programming for Artificial Intelligence WM9QF-15 
Component Type Individual Assignment 
Module Leader Amir Kayhani 
Module Tutor Amir Kayhani 
Assessment Title Assignment 
Weighting (%) 70% 
 
 
 
 
 
  
--- Page 2 ---
 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   April 2025 
Coursework Brief 
 
Task 1: Data Insights Dashboard for Public Health Reports 
You have been asked to develop a Python-based data insights tool for a team of 
researchers analysing public health data (e.g., vaccination rates, disease outbreaks, or 
mental health reports). 
The goal is to support data access, filtering, cleaning, summarisation, and presentation 
(not predictive modelling). This simulates what a software developer might build to 
support an AI or data science team. 
Design and implement a Python program that: 
 Core Functionalities*: 
1. Data Access & Loading 
o Read data from at least one source: 
 Public dataset (e.g. CSV, JSON) 
 Public API (e.g. WHO, UK government data, etc.) 
 A database (e.g. relational database) 
o Load the data into a local or cloud database. 
2. Data Cleaning & Structuring 
o Handle missing or inconsistent data 
o Convert types (dates, numbers) 
o Create data structures (e.g., dictionaries, lists of records) 
3. Filtering and Summary Views 
o Allow users to filter data by criteria (e.g., country, date range, age group) 
o Generate summaries such as: 
 Mean, min, max, or counts 
 Trends over time 
 Grouped results (e.g., by country or region) 
4. Presentation Layer 
o Command-line interface (CLI), menu, or simple UI 
o Generate visual outputs (e.g., charts with matplotlib, tables with pandas) 
5. Extension Features (according to the scenario’s requirements)   
o CRUD functionalities on the DB to create, read, update and delete the data. 
o Export filtered data or summaries as CSV 
o Log all the user activities into a log file 
*Core functionalities are indicative requirements of the software solution, and you may 
identify other requirements as part of your requirement analysis. 
 
 
--- Page 3 ---
 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   April 2025 
Reflective Report Guidance for Task 1 
Your report should critically document your software development. Including (but not 
limited to): 
1. Project overview: Aim, scope, key functionality 
2. Software engineering and design: 
o How your code is organised 
o Requirement analysis 
o Data structures used and why 
3. External tools: 
o Which libraries/APIs did you use, and what alternative libraries or APIs 
could you use 
4. Testing and debugging: 
o Strategy used  
5. Use of AI-generated code (e.g. GitHub Copilot, ChatGPT): 
o Where and how did you use these tools 
o Whether you modified or validated outputs 
o Ethical considerations and originality 
6. Reflection: 
o Critically evaluate the implemented project and discuss the alternative 
methods that could have been used. Consider the future expansion of the 
project, optimisation and requirements of using HPC methods (e.g. 
GPU/CUDA computing) 
You must follow the programming and software development/engineering best practices 
and provide all the software development artefacts and documentations (e.g. UML and 
ER Diagrams, etc.) in your reflective report. 
 
Task 2: Data Structure and Algorithm 
Implement a Python code that includes the following components. You must use an 
appropriate data structure to represent and manipulate the data efficiently, based on the 
scenario provided. 
1. Data Structure Design 
o Choose and implement an appropriate structure (e.g., graph, tree, or 
queue-based structure) to model the data. 
o Ensure it efficiently supports updates or queries as required. 
2. Algorithm Implementation 
o Implement one or more relevant algorithms from the module content to 
implement the scenario’s requirements. 
o Algorithms must operate on the data structure you created. 
3.  Application-Specific Extension 
--- Page 4 ---
 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   April 2025 
o Other requirements, such as visualisation of the implemented data 
structure (if applicable), as specified in the scenario. 
Reflective Report (Analysis and Evaluation) Guidance for Task 2:  
Submit a short technical report (750–1000 words) covering the following: 
1. Justification of Design 
o Justify your choice of data structures and algorithms. 
o Analyse computational complexity. 
o Discuss alternative approaches and why your choice was suitable. 
2. Evaluation and Scalability 
o Critically evaluate how your solution would perform with larger or dynamic 
datasets. 
o Discuss its suitability for real-world use cases. 
For Both Tasks 1 and 2: 
You are expected to adopt a test-driven development (TDD) approach during the project. 
This means you should: 
 Write test functions first, before implementing the full functionality 
 Ensure that each new function or feature is supported by one or more automated 
test cases 
Your final code submission must include: 
 A separate test file or module in your Git repository (e.g. test_main.py) 
 A link to your Git repository for each task on the first page of the report, for each 
task and the screenshots of your code, along with the outputs in your report. You 
must make sure your Git repository is accessible for all the module tutors but not 
for everyone. (you must create private repositories but add the module tutors as 
collaborators) 
 Tests that demonstrate correctness and handle edge cases (e.g., empty input, 
missing data, invalid types) 
 The quality of the code and programming are important and including comments 
to explain the code is essential. 
 Your submission must include a Readme file to explain how to run the codes 
(commands, etc.) 
⚠️ Writing tests after the full implementation may result in reduced marks for code 
structure and software engineering practice. You must use Git for version control. Your 
repository history will be reviewed for appropriate frequency, quality and commits. 
⚠️ Accurate referencing and in-text citation are essential. 
--- Page 5 ---
 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   April 2025 
⚠️ Using AI is only permitted for writing or fixing programming code. You can copy and 
adapt the codes that your tutors shared with you during the module (in the Git repo) 
without referencing, but you need to provide references and in-text citations if you copy 
or adapt any code from any other sources. 
 
Assessment Length/ 
Word count 
 
The maximum word count is 2,800 words for both tasks combined. 
 
The word count figure includes quotations, tables, figures, 
footnotes, endnotes, in-text citations, titles, abstracts & summaries. 
It does not include the questions as set, or other material from the 
rubric or supplementary information such as tables of contents, 
tables of figures, tables of tables, the reference list, or 
bibliographies. Material submitted in an annex or appendix is also 
outside the word count. 
 
There is +10% allowed on the word count without penalty. If you 
exceed the word count by more than 10% to 30%, a penalty of 10% 
on the original mark awarded will be applied from the original total 
mark but capped at the pass mark. If you exceed the word count by 
more than 30%, the final mark will be capped at the pass mark. 
 
ARTIFICIAL INTELLIGENCE (AI) 
AI Scale  
 
 
 
NO AI You must not use AI at any point 
during the assessment.  
You must demonstrate your core 
skills and knowledge. 
 
 
 
AI PLANNING You may use AI for planning, idea 
development, and research. 
Your final submission should show 
how you have developed and 
refined these ideas. 
 
✓ 
AI 
COLLABORATION 
You may use AI to assist with 
specific tasks such as drafting text, 
refining and evaluating your work. 
You must critically evaluate and 
modify any AI-generated content 
you use. 
 
 
 
FULL AI You may use AI extensively 
throughout your work either as you 
wish, or as specifically directed in 
your assessment. 
Focus on directing AI to achieve 
your goals while demonstrating 
your critical thinking. 
 
 
AI EXPLORATION You should use AI creatively to 
solve the task. 
AI Policy Unauthorised and undisclosed use of Artificial Intelligence may 
result in a finding of Academic Misconduct and an academic sanction 
--- Page 6 ---
 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   April 2025 
under Regulation 11. Guidance for WMG student on the use of 
Artificial Intelligence can be found here.  
 
Module Learning 
Outcomes (numbered) 
1. Synthesize the theories and concepts of software 
engineering and object-oriented programming, 
along with fundamental algorithms and data 
structures in Python.   
2. Develop effective and independent software 
solutions in the Python programming language at an 
intermediate level.  
3. Develop a practical understanding of SQL language 
and databases and implement computer programs 
to store and retrieve data from a database for a 
practical application. 
4. Collaboratively develop and present software 
applications/solutions using Python and databases 
5. Critically evaluate software development lifecycle 
practices and design conceptual and practical 
solutions 
Learning Outcomes 
assessed in this 
assessment (numbered) 
1, 2 and 3 
Learning Outcomes Please remember that you must meet all Learning Outcomes to 
achieve a pass mark. 
Late Submission Policy If work is submitted late, penalties will be applied at the rate of 5 
marks per University working day after the due date, up to a 
maximum of 10 working days late. After this period, the mark for 
the work will be reduced to 0 (which is the maximum penalty). 
“Late” means after the submission deadline time as well as the 
date – work submitted after the given time even on the same day is 
counted as 1 day late. 
 
Resit Policy If you fail this module and/or component, the University allows 
students to remedy failure (within certain limits). Decisions to 
authorise resits are made by Exam Boards. These will be issued at 
specific times of the year, depending on your programme of study. 
More information can be found from your programme office if you 
are concerned. 
 
If this is already a resit attempt, this means you will not be eligible for 
an additional attempt. The University allows as standard a maximum 
of two attempts on any assessment (i.e. only one resit). Students can 
only have a third attempt under exceptional circumstances via a 
Mitigating Circumstances Panel decision. 
Retention of Drafts & 
Records 
Please ensure that you retain any drafts of your work, associated 
notes, records of research should they be required by the marker or 
moderator.  You do not need to submit these, but they should be 
retained until after the end of your registration. 
 
 
Where to get help:  
--- Page 7 ---
 
 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                   April 2025 
 
1. Talk to your module tutor if you do not understand the question or are unsure as to 
exactly what is required.  
2. There are also numerous online courses provided by the University library to help in 
academic referencing, writing, avoiding plagiarism and a number of other useful resources. 
https://warwick.ac.uk/services/library/students/your-library-online/ 
3. If you have a problem with your wellbeing, it is important that you contact your personal 
tutor or wellbeing support services https://warwick.ac.uk/services/wss 
 
 